edit: overview: nits and align with VDAF (#418)
ietf-wg-ppm/draft-ietf-ppm-dap: draft-ietf-ppm-dap.md

# Overview {#overview}

The protocol is executed by a large set of Clients and a small set of servers.
Servers are referred to as "Aggregators". Each Client's input to the protocol is
its measurement (or set of measurements, e.g., counts of some user behavior).
Given the input set of measurements `x_1, ..., x_n` held by `n` users, the goal
of DAP is to compute `y = F(p, x_1, ..., x_n)` for some function `F` while
revealing nothing else about the measurements. We call `F` the "aggregation
function".

This protocol is extensible and allows for the addition of new cryptographic
schemes that implement the VDAF interface specified in
{{!VDAF=I-D.draft-irtf-cfrg-vdaf-03}}. Candidates include:

* Prio3 ({{Section 7 of !VDAF}}), which allows for aggregate statistics such as
  sum, mean, histograms, etc.

* Poplar1 ({{Section 8 of !VDAF}}), which allows for finding the most popular

>   strings among a collection of Clients (e.g., the URL of their home page) as

Reviewer: "collection of Clients" is awkward here. It's a collection of their inputs, right?

Author: Yes, I was aiming for minimal change, but this seems like a sensible change. Changed to "set of".

  well as counting the number of Clients that hold a given string. This VDAF is
  the basis of the Poplar protocol of {{BBCGGI21}}, which is designed to solve
  the heavy hitters problem in a privacy preserving manner.

VDAFs rely on secret sharing to protect the privacy of the measurements. Rather
than sending its input in the clear, each client shards its measurements into a
sequence of "input shares" and sends an input share to each of the Aggregators.
This provides two important properties:

> * Given only a subset of the input shares, it is iompossible to deduce the
>   pliantext measurement from which they were generated.

Reviewer 2: nit: spelling
```suggestion
* Given only a subset of the input shares, it is impossible to deduce the
  plaintext measurement from which they were generated.
```

> * It allows the Aggregators to compute the aggregation function  by first

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It allows the Aggregators to compute the aggregation function by first
```

>   aggregating up their input shares locally into "aggregate shares", then then

Reviewer 2: nit: typo
```suggestion
  aggregating up their input shares locally into "aggregate shares", then
```

                    |            |
                    +------------+
~~~~
{: #dap-topology title="System Architecture"}

[[OPEN ISSUE: This shows two helpers, but the document only allows one for now.
https://github.com/ietf-wg-ppm/draft-ietf-ppm-dap/issues/117]]

The main participants in the protocol are as follows:

Collector:

> : The entity which wants to take aggregate the measurements generated by the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: The entity which wants to obtain the aggregate of the measurements generated by the
```
It'd be awkward to suggest that the collector does the aggregating, because that's the aggregators' job.

> : The entity which wants to take aggregate the measurements generated by the
>   Clients. any given aggregate will have a single Collector.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
: The entity which wants to aggregate the measurements generated by the
  Clients. Any given measurement task will have a single Collector.
```

Each task is identified by a unique 32-byte ID which is used to refer to it in
protocol messages.

During the duration of the task, each Client records its own measurement
value(s), packages them up into a report, and sends them to the leader. Each
share is separately encrypted for each Aggregator so that even though they pass
through the Leader, the Leader is unable to see or modify them. Depending on the
task, the Client may only send one report or may send many reports over time.

The Leader distributes the shares to the Helpers and orchestrates the process of
verifying them (see {{validating-inputs}}) and assembling them into a final
aggregate result for the Collector. Depending on the VDAF, it may be possible to
incrementally process each report as it comes in, or may be necessary to wait
until the entire batch of reports is received.

## Validating Inputs {#validating-inputs}

An essential task of any data collection pipeline is ensuring that the data
being aggregated is "valid". In DAP, input validation is complicated by the fact
that none of the entities other than the Client ever sees that client's

> pliantext measurement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
plaintext measurement.
```
